《电子信息工程专业英语教程(第6版)》题库目 录Section A 术语互译	1Section B 段落翻译	5Section C阅读理解题目素材	13C.1  History of Tablets	13C.2  A Brief History of satellite communication	13C.3  Smartphones	14C.4  Analog, Digital and HDTV	15C.5  SoC	16C.6  Analog systems vs. Digital systems （第6版新增）	16C.7  The Integrated Circuit (IC) （第6版新增）	17C.8  A quartz crystal’s Resonance Frequency（第6版新增）	17C.9  Grounding in PCB designs（第6版新增）	18C.10  Switching regulators （第6版新增）	18Section A 术语互译课文核心专业术语1transistor  晶体管semiconductor  半导体LSI   Large-scale Integration   大规模集成（电路）VLSI  Very Large-scale Integration   超大规模集成（电路）2register  寄存器cache  高速缓存capacitor  电容器flip flop  触发器interface circuitry  接口电路CMOS   Complementary Metal-Oxide Semiconductor   互补金属氧化物半导体ECL   Emitter Coupled Logic   射极耦合逻辑3latch 锁存器buffer 缓存器boot sector 引导扇区assembly language 汇编语言BIOS  Basic Input Output System 基本输入输出系统MIPS  Million Instructions Per Second 每秒百万条指令4comparator 比较器oscillator  振荡器current source 电流源voltage source 电压源level shifter 电平移动器signal conditioner 信号调理器5angular frequency 角频率quality factor 品质因数DC Direct Current 直流电AC Alternating Current 交流电9pad  焊盘lead 引线power loss 功率损耗frequency response 频率响应motherboard  主板，母板daughter board  插件板，子板VSWR  Voltage Standing Wave Ratio 电压驻波比10antenna 天线base station 基站end office 端局FCC Federal Communications Commission 联邦通信委员会PSTN  Public Switched Telephone Network 公共交换电话网11vocoder 声码器 simplex 单工，单向通信delta modulation 增量调制spread spectrum communication 扩频通信TDM  Time Division Multiplexing 时分复用FDM  Frequency-division multiplexing 频分复用12modem 调制解调器ethernet 以太网power supply 电源heat sink 散热片USB Universal Serial Bus 通用串行总线HDMI High-Definition Multimedia Interface 高清晰度多媒体接口POST power-on self-test 开机自检OS  Operating System 操作系统13schematic  原理图embedded system 嵌入式系统design flow 设计流程present state 现态next state 次态EDA  Electronic Design Automation 电子设计自动化HDL  Hardware Description Language 硬件描述语言ASIC  Application Specific Integrated Circuit 专用集成电路FPGA  Field Programmable Gate Array 现场可编程门阵列14prototype  样机cryptography  密码学state machine 状态机(P   microprocessor 微处理器SoC   System-on-Chip 片上系统15stimulus  激励源timing  时序high impedance 高阻16aliasing  混叠spectrum  频谱sample and hold circuit 采样保持电路anti-aliasing filter 抗混叠滤波器full scale range 满量程范围dynamic range 动态范围DSP  Digital Signal Processor 数字信号处理器GPP  General Purpose Processor 通用处理器Section B 段落翻译编号m.n代表第m课第n段；此外，a代表前半段，b代表后半段编号中英文对照1.2The advantages of the transistor over the vacuum tube were enormous. Compared to the old technology, transistors were much smaller, faster, and cheaper to manufacture. They were also far more reliable and used much less power. The transistor is what started the evolution of the modern computer industry in motion.和真空管相比，晶体管具备巨大的优势——尺寸小、速度快、成本低，性能更可靠、耗能也更少。晶体管的发明带来了计算机工业的蓬勃发展。1.5By careful chemical composition and arrangement, it is possible to create a very small transistor directly on a layer of silicon, using various technologies to manipulate the material into the correct form. These transistors are small, fast and reliable, and use relatively little power.通过精密的化学合成和设计、运用多种材料处理技术，可以在硅层上直接构造极小的晶体管。这种晶体管体积小、速度快、功能可靠，耗能也少。2.1Memories can be made in mechanical, magnetic, optical, biological and electronic technologies. Examples of magnetic memories are tapes, floppy disks, hard drives and ferroelectric RAMs. Examples of optical memories are CD-ROMs, rewritable CDs. Electronic memory is used extensively in computer equipment since it is the fastest available.制造存储器件，可采用机械技术、磁技术、光技术、生物技术和电子技术。软盘、硬盘和铁电随机存储器属于磁存储器件。光存储器件有只读光盘、可写光盘。在计算机设备中，广泛使用的是电子存储器件，因为它是当前速度最快的存储器件。2.5SRAM comes in many speed classes, ranging from several ns for cache applications to 200ns for low power applications. SRAM exists in both bipolar and MOS technology. CMOS[3] technology boasts the highest density and the lowest power consumption. Fast cache memory can be constructed in BiCMOS technology, a hybrid technology that uses bipolar transistors for extra drive. The fastest SRAM memories are available in ECL (Emitter Coupled Logic) bipolar technology. Because of the high power consumption, the memory size is limited in this technology.SRAM的速度等级很多：从高速缓存的几个纳秒到低速应用的200 ns。双极性SRAM和MOS SRAM现在都有。CMOS技术的优势在于密度最高、功耗最低。高速缓存可以使用BiCMOS技术构建；BiCMOS是一种混合技术，它使用双极性晶体管作为附加的驱动。采用“射极耦合逻辑”（ECL）双极性技术的SRAM具有最快的速度。由于这种技术的功耗高，所以存储器容量受到限制。2.10The advantage of ROM is that it can be manufactured at the lowest price in high volumes. Another advantage in some applications is that it is impossible to alter the data once the chips are made, and that no further programming and testing are required. On the other hand, if the data or code must be changed this can be a small disaster. The rest of the chips will end in the dustbin and new chips will have to be made.ROM的优点是量产价格最低。对于某些应用来说，ROM还具备另外一个优点——当芯片制造出来后，其中的数据就不能再改了，也就不需要进一步编程、测试了。但是，假如数据或代码非改不可的话，那么采用ROM就是大错特错。剩余的ROM芯片只好丢进垃圾桶，还得重新制造芯片。3.14ROM stands for read-only memory. A ROM chip is programmed with a permanent collection of pre-set bytes. The address bus tells the ROM chip which byte to get and place on the data bus. When the RD line changes state, the ROM chip presents the selected byte onto the data bus. ROM是指“只读存储器”。ROM芯片是用一组预设字节编程得到的。地址总线告知ROM芯片要将哪个字节取出并置于数据总线上。当RD信号线改变状态时，ROM芯片将选中的字节输出到数据总线上。3.15RAM stands for random-access memory. RAM contains bytes of information, and the microprocessor can read or write to those bytes depending on whether the RD or WR line is signaled. One problem with today's RAM chips is that they forget everything once the power goes off. That is why the computer needs ROM.RAM是指“随机存取存储器”。RAM中包含着以字节为单位的信息，微处理器能够依据RD/WR信号哪个有效来决定字节的读/写。当前RAM芯片的一个问题是：掉电后，所有保存在RAM上的内容全部丢失。这就是计算机需要ROM的原因。3.21More transistors also allow for a technology called pipelining[6].In a pipelined architecture, instruction execution overlaps. So even though it might take five clock cycles to execute each instruction, there can be five instructions in various stages of execution simultaneously. That way it looks like one instruction completes every clock cycle. 有了更多的晶体管，就可以使用流水线技术。在流水线结构中，指令的执行是重叠的。尽管执行每条指令可能需要5个周期，却可以在不同阶段同时执行5条指令。这样看上去好像每个周期都能完成一条指令。3.22Many modern processors have multiple instruction decoders, each with its own pipeline. This allows for multiple instruction streams, which means that more than one instruction can complete during each clock cycle. This technique can be quite complex to implement, so it takes lots of transistors.许多现代处理器有多个指令译码器，而每个指令译码器都有各自的流水线。这样，就可以实现“多指令流”——在一个周期内完成多条指令。“多指令流”技术实现起来相当复杂，需要使用大量晶体管。4.8aThe first signal conditioning op amps were constructed with vacuum tubes prior to the introduction of transistors, so they were large and bulky. During the 1950s, miniature vacuum tubes that worked from lower voltage power supplies enabled the manufacture of op amps that shrunk to the size of a brick used in house construction, so the op amp modules were nicknamed bricks. Vacuum tube size and component size decreased until an op amp was shrunk to the size of a single octal vacuum tube. 在晶体管出现前，第一个用于信号调理的运放是用真空管构建的，因此它的体积很大。20世纪50年代，低电压工作的小型真空管使运放的体积缩小到一块砖的大小，因此运放模块有了个绰号“砖块”。真空管和元器件体积不断缩小，直至运放缩至一只八脚真空管的大小。4.8bTransistors were commercially developed in the 1960s, and they further reduced op amp size to several cubic inches. Most of these early op amps were made for specific applications, so they were not necessarily general purpose. The early op amps served a specific purpose, but each manufacturer had different specifications and packages; hence, there was little second sourcing among the early op amps.在20世纪60年代，晶体管实现了商业开发，这进一步将运放的体积减至几立方英寸。早期运放大多是为特定应用制造的，所以它们不一定通用；早期运放是为某种特定应用服务的，而每个生产商制定的技术指标和封装都各不相同；所以，早期运放几乎都不存在另外的货源。9.6Two types of crosstalk can be generated: backward crosstalk and forward crosstalk. Backward, also called near-end crosstalk, is measured at the driving end of the connector and represents the sum of the capacitive and inductive coupling. Forward, also called far-end crosstalk, is measured at the receiving end of the connector and represents capacitive minus inductive coupling.串扰分成“后向串扰”和“前向串扰”两类。“后向串扰”也叫“近端串扰”，它在连接器的驱动端进行测量，代表了容性耦合和感性耦合之和。“前向串扰”也叫“远端串扰”，它在连接器的接收端进行测量，代表了容性耦合和感性耦合之差。10.1Wireless telephones come in two basic varieties: cordless phones and mobile phones (sometimes called cell phones). Cordless phones are devices consisting of a base station and a handset sold as a set for use within the home. These are never used for networking. Mobile phones have gone through three distinct generations, with different technologies: (1) Analog voice (2) Digital voice (3) Digital voice and data.无线移动电话分为两大类：无绳电话和移动电话。无绳电话由基站和室内手持设备组成。无绳电话不支持网络传输。移动电话的发展经历了三个时期，各有不同的技术：（1）模拟语音（2）数字语音（3）数字语音和数据。10.9aIn all mobile phone systems, a geographic region is divided up into cells, which is why the devices are sometimes called cell phones. In AMPS, the cells are typically 10 to 20 km across; in digital systems, the cells are smaller. Each cell uses some set of frequencies not used by any of its neighbors. The key idea that gives cellular systems far more capacity than previous systems is the use of relatively small cells and the reuse of transmission frequencies in nearby (but not adjacent) cells.在移动电话系统中，地理区域分成一个个蜂窝状的小区。这就是“移动电话”也称作“蜂窝电话”的原因。在AMPS系统中，蜂窝小区的典型大小为10～20km；在数字系统中，蜂窝小区要小一些。每个小区使用一组特定的频率，这组频率在其临近的任何小区都不能使用。使蜂窝系统具备很大容量的关键在于使用了较小的蜂窝小区和在附近（但不是临近的）小区重复使用频率。11.9aA GSM system has 124 pairs of simplex channels. Each simplex channel is 200 kHz wide and supports eight separate connections on it, using time division multiplexing. Each currently active station is assigned one time slot on one channel pair. Theoretically, 992 channels can be supported in each cell, but many of them are not available, to avoid frequency conflicts with neighbouring cells.GSM系统拥有124对单工信道。每个单工信道带宽为200kHz，并以时分复用的方式提供了8路独立连接。每个正在使用的基站都会分配到频率对上的一个时隙。从理论上讲，每个蜂窝小区可以支持992个信道；但为了避免和邻近蜂窝小区发生频率冲突，许多信道并不能使用。12.2A PC is a general-purpose tool built around a microprocessor. It has lots of different parts - memory, a hard disk, a modem, etc. - that work together. "General purpose" means that you can do many different things with a PC. You can use it to type documents, send e-mail, browse the Web and play games.PC是一种以微处理器为中心的通用工具。它由存储器、硬盘、调制解调器等很多不同的部件共同构成。所谓“通用”是指使用PC可以做许多不同的事情。既可以用它录入文件，也可以用它发送电子邮件、浏览网页和玩游戏。12.16The BIOS is software stored on a flash memory chip. In a PC, the BIOS is embedded on the motherboard. Occasionally, a PC manufacturer will release an update for the BIOS, and you can carefully follow instructions to "flash the BIOS" with the updated software.BIOS是储存在闪存芯片中的软件。闪存芯片嵌在PC的主板上。有时候，PC制造商会发布BIOS更新，你可以按照说明“刷新BIOS”。12.19bThe POST is a small computer program within the BIOS that checks for hardware failures. A single beep after the POST signals that everything's okay. Other beep sequences signal a hardware failure, and PC repair specialists compare these sequences with a chart to determine which component has failed.POST是BIOS中的硬件故障检测程序。如果一切正常，蜂鸣器就会鸣叫一声。如果蜂鸣器发出其他声响，就说明出现了硬件故障。根据鸣叫情况，PC维修人员对照图表判定哪个部件出现了故障。13.4bTwo HDLs are in common usage today: Verilog and VHDL (VHSIC Hardware Description Language, where VHSIC stands for Very High Speed Integrated Circuit). Standard HDLs are important because they can be used by different CAD tools from different tool vendors. In the days before Verilog and VHDL, every tool had its own HDL, requiring laborious translation between HDLs, for example, to verify the output from a synthesis tool with another vendor's simulator.Verilog和VHDL（VHSIC硬件描述语言，VHSIC代表超高速集成电路）是两种广泛应用的硬件描述语言。标准化HDL是很重要的，因为标准化语言可以被不同生产商提供的不同CAD工具使用。在Verilog和VHDL出现之前，每个CAD工具都有自己的HDL。在不同HDL之间进行转换（例如，使用其他模拟器来验证某个综合工具的输出）既费时又费力。14.3aThe “field programmable” portion of the FPGA’s name refers to the fact that its programming takes place “in the field” (as opposed to devices whose internal functionality is hardwired by the manufacturer). This may mean that FPGAs are configured in the laboratory, or it may refer to modifying the function of a device resident in an electronic system that has already been deployed in the outside world.FPGA名称中的“现场可编程”是指研发人员“在现场”对FPGA编程，而不是由芯片制造商以“硬连线”方式实现器件的内部功能。也就是说，可以在实验室对FPGA进行配置，也可以对“已投入使用的”电子系统中的FPGA进行配置。15.2aVHDL is also a general-purpose programming language: just as high-level programming languages allow complex design concepts to be expressed as computer programs, VHDL allows the behavior of complex electronic circuits to be captured into a design system for automatic circuit synthesis or for system simulation.VHDL是一种通用编程语言。和其他高级编程语言一样，VHDL将复杂的设计概念表达为计算机程序；为了实现电路自动综合或系统仿真，VHDL可将复杂电子电路的行为输入到一个设计系统中。16.1bAnalog signals are real world signals that we experience everyday - sound, light, temperature, and pressure. A digital signal is a numerical representation of the analog signal. It may be easier and more cost effective to process these signals in the digital world.我们天天遇到的现实世界信号都是模拟信号——如声音、光、温度和压力。数字信号是模拟信号的数值表示。在数字世界里，对这些信号进行处理可能会更容易、成本更低。16.12bA DSP is a type of microprocessor - one that is incredibly fast and powerful. It is unique because it processes data in real time. This real-time capability makes a DSP perfect for applications that cannot tolerate any delays.“数字信号处理器”是一种速度极快、功能强大的微处理器。DSP与众不同之处在于它能够实时处理数据。实时处理能力使DSP非常适合于那些不容许任何延迟的应用。17.7DSPs can be purchased in three forms, as a core, as a processor, and as a board level product. In DSP, the term "core" refers to the section of the processor where the key tasks are carried out, including the data registers, multiplier, ALU, address generator, and program sequencer. A complete processor requires combining the core with memory and interfaces to the outside world. While the core and these peripheral sections are designed separately, they will be fabricated on the same piece of silicon, making the processor a single integrated circuit.购买DSPs有三种形式：购买内核、购买处理器和购买板级产品。在DSPs中，内核是指处理器中运行关键任务的部分；它包括数据寄存器、乘法器、算术逻辑单元、地址产生器和程序定序器。一个完整的处理器需要将内核、存储器和外部接口组合起来。尽管内核设计和片内外设设计是分别进行的，但是却被制作在同一片硅片上；这样，处理器就能成为单片集成电路。18.4bIt is impossible to process real-world analog signals using purely digital techniques, since all sensors (microphones, thermocouples, strain gages, piezoelectric crystals, disk drive heads, etc.) are analog sensors. Therefore, some sort of signal conditioning circuitry is required in order to prepare the sensor output for further signal processing, whether it be analog or digital.单靠纯数字技术是不能完成处理现实世界模拟信号的任务的，因为所有传感器（话筒、热偶、压力感应器、压电晶体、磁盘驱动器头等）都是模拟的。因此，为了使传感器的输出信号能够进一步地进行信号处理（不论模拟信号处理，还是数字信号处理），就需要某种形式的“信号调理电路”。20.3Perceptual coding exploits certain flaws in the human auditory system to encode a signal in such a way that it sounds the same to a human listener, even if it looks quite different on an oscilloscope. Perceptual coding is based on the science of psychoacoustics — how people perceive sound. MP3 is based on perceptual coding. 知觉编码利用了人类听觉系统的缺陷，采用让人耳听不出来差别的方式对信号进行编码，尽管在示波器上观看重放波形差别很大。知觉编码技术是建立在心理声学基础之上的。心理声学研究的是人类感知声音的方式。MP3建立在知觉编码基础之上。22.1aA digital image is made up of many rows and columns of pixels. For gray scale images, each pixel is assigned a number that represents the gray shade assigned to that pixel. The larger the number of pixels in an image, and the larger the number of available gray scale levels, the better the resolution of the image.一幅数字图像是由多行多列像素组成的。对灰度图像而言，每个像素被赋予一个代表其灰度级的数字。一幅图像拥有的像素越多，可用灰度级越多，这幅图像的分辨率就越高。Section C阅读理解题目素材C.1  History of Tablets	The idea of the tablet computer isn't new. Back in 1968, a computer scientist named Alan Kay proposed that with advances in flat-panel display technology, user interfaces, miniaturization of computer components and some experimental work in WiFi technology, you could develop an all-in-one computing device. He developed the idea further, suggesting that such a device would be perfect as an educational tool for schoolchildren. In 1972, he published a paper about the device and called it the Dynabook.	The sketches of the Dynabook show a device very similar to the tablet computers we have today, with a couple of exceptions. The Dynabook had both a screen and a keyboard all on the same plane. But Key's vision went even further. He predicted that with the right touch-screen technology, you could do away with the physical keyboard and display a virtual keyboard in any configuration on the screen itself.	Key was ahead of his time. It would take nearly four decades before a tablet similar to the one he imagined took the public by storm. But that doesn't mean there were no tablet computers on the market between the Dynabook concept and Apple's famed iPad.	One early tablet was the GRiDPad. First produced in 1989, the GRiDPad included a monochromatic capacitance touch screen and a wired stylus. It weighed just under 5 pounds (2.26 kilograms). Compared to today's tablets, the GRiDPad was bulky and heavy, with a short battery life of only three hours. The man behind the GRiDPad was Jeff Hawkins, who later founded Palm.	Other pen-based tablet computers followed but none received much support from the public. Apple first entered the tablet battlefield with the Newton, a device that's received equal amounts of love and ridicule over the years. Much of the criticism for the Newton focuses on its handwriting-recognition software.	It really wasn't until Steve Jobs revealed the first iPad to an eager crowd that tablet computers became a viable consumer product. Today, companies like Apple, Google, Microsoft and HP are trying to predict consumer needs while designing the next generation of tablet devices. C.2  A Brief History of satellite communication	In an article in Wireless World in 1945, Arthur C. Clarke proposed the idea of placing satellites in geostationary orbit around Earth such that three equally spaced satellites could provide worldwide coverage. However, it was not until 1957 that the Soviet Union launched the first satellite Sputnik 1, which was followed in early 1958 by the U.S. Army’s Explorer 1. Both Sputnik and Explorer transmitted telemetry information.	The first communications satellite, the Signal Communicating Orbit Repeater Experiment (SCORE), was launched in 1958 by the U.S. Air Force. SCORE was a delayed-repeater satellite, which received signals from Earth at 150 MHz and stored them on tape for later retransmission. A further experimental communication satellite, Echo 1, was launched on August 12, 1960 and placed into inclined orbit at about 1500 km above Earth. Echo 1 was an aluminized plastic balloon with a diameter of 30 m and a weight of 75.3 kg. Echo 1 successfully demonstrated the first two-way voice communications by satellite. 	On October 4, 1960, the U.S. Department of Defense launched Courier into an elliptical orbit between 956 and 1240 km, with a period of 107 min. Although Courier lasted only 17 days, it was used for real-time voice, data, and facsimile transmission. The satellite also had five tape recorders onboard; four were used for delayed repetition of digital information, and the other for delayed repetition of analog messages.	Direct-repeated satellite transmission began with the launch of Telstar I on July 10, 1962. Telstar I was an 87-cm, 80-kg sphere placed in low-Earth orbit between 960 and 6140 km, with an orbital period of 158 min. Telstar I was the first satellite to be able to transmit and receive simultaneously and was used for experimental telephone, image, and television transmission. However, on February 21, 1963, Telstar I suffered damage caused by the newly discovered Van Allen belts. 	Telstar II was made more radiation resistant and was launched on May 7, 1963. Telstar II was a straight repeater with a 6.5-GHz uplink and a 4.1-GHz downlink. The satellite power amplifier used a specially developed 2-W traveling wave tube. Along with its other capabilities, the broadband amplifier was able to relay color TV transmissions. The first successful trans-Atlantic transmission of video was accomplished with Telstar II , which also incorporated radiation measurements and experiments that exposed semiconductor components to space radiation.	The first satellites placed in geostationary orbit were the synchronous communication (SYNCOM ) satellites launched by NASA in 1963. SYNCOM I failed on injection into orbit. However, SYNCOM II was successfully launched on July 26, 1964 and provided telephone, teletype, and facsimile transmission. SYNCOM III was launched on August 19, 1964 and transmitted TV pictures from the Tokyo Olympics. The International Telecommunications by Satellite (INTELSAT) consortium was founded in July 1964 with the charter to design, construct, establish, and maintain the operation of a global commercial communications system on a nondiscriminatory basis. The INTELSAT network started with the launch on April 6, 1965, of INTELSAT I, also called Early Bird. On June 28, 1965, INTELSAT I began providing 240 commercial international telephone channels as well as TV transmission between the United States and Europe.	In 1979, INMARSAT established a third global system. In 1995, the INMARSAT name was changed to the International Mobile Satellite Organization to reflect the fact that the organization had evolved to become the only provider of global mobile satellite communications at sea, in the air, and on the land.Early telecommunication satellites were mainly used for long-distance continental and intercontinental broadband, narrowband, and TV transmission. With the advent of broadband optical fiber transmission, satellite services shifted focus to TV distribution, and to point-to-multipoint and very small aperture terminal (VSAT) applications. Satellite transmission is currently undergoing further significant growth with the introduction of mobile satellite systems for personal communications and fixed satellite systems for broadband data transmission.C.3  Smartphones	Think of a daily task, any daily task, and it's likely there's a specialized, pocket-sized device designed to help you accomplish it. You can get a separate, tiny and powerful machine to make phone calls, keep your calendar and address book, entertain you, play your music, give directions, take pictures, check your e-mail, and do countless other things. But how many pockets do you have? Handheld devices become as clunky as a room-sized supercomputer when you have to carry four of them around with you every day.	A smartphone is one device that can take care of all of your handheld computing and communication needs in a single, small package. It's not so much a distinct class of products as it is a different set of standards for cell phones to live up to. 	Unlike many traditional cell phones, smartphones allow individual users to install, configure and run applications of their choosing. A smartphone offers the ability to conform the device to your particular way of doing things. Most standard cell-phone software offers only limited choices for re-configuration, forcing you to adapt to the way it's set up. On a standard phone, whether or not you like the built-in calendar application, you are stuck with it except for a few minor tweaks. If that phone were a smartphone, you could install any compatible calendar application you like.	Here's a list of some of the things smartphones can do:Send and receive mobile phone calls Personal Information Management (PIM) including notes, calendar and to-do listCommunication with laptop or desktop computersData synchronization with applications like Microsoft OutlookE-mailInstant messagingApplications such as word processing programs or video gamesPlay audio and video files in some standard formatsC.4  Analog, Digital and HDTV	For years, watching TV has involved analog signals and cathode ray tube (CRT) sets. The signal is made of continually varying radio waves that the TV translates into a picture and sound. An analog signal can reach a person's TV over the air, through a cable or via satellite. Digital signals, like the ones from DVD players, are converted to analog when played on traditional TVs. 	This system has worked pretty well for a long time, but it has some limitations:Conventional CRT sets display around 480 visible lines of pixels. Broadcasters have been sending signals that work well with this resolution for years, and they can't fit enough resolution to fill a huge television into the analog signal.Analog pictures are interlaced - a CRT's electron gun paints only half the lines for each pass down the screen. On some TVs, interlacing makes the picture flicker.Converting video to analog format lowers its quality.	United States broadcasting is currently changing to digital television (DTV). A digital signal transmits the information for video and sound as ones and zeros instead of as a wave. For over-the-air broadcasting, DTV will generally use the UHF portion of the radio spectrum with a 6 MHz bandwidth, just like analog TV signals do.	DTV has several advantages:The picture, even when displayed on a small TV, is better quality.A digital signal can support a higher resolution, so the picture will still look good when shown on a larger TV screen.The video can be progressive rather than interlaced - the screen shows the entire picture for every frame instead of every other line of pixels.TV stations can broadcast several signals using the same bandwidth. This is called multicasting.If broadcasters choose to, they can include interactive content or additional information with the DTV signal.It can support high-definition (HDTV) broadcasts.	DTV also has one really big disadvantage: Analog TVs can't decode and display digital signals. When analog broadcasting ends, you'll only be able to watch TV on your trusty old set if you have cable or satellite service transmitting analog signals or if you have a set-top digital converter.C.5  SoC	The semiconductor industry has continued to make impressive improvements in the achievable density of very large-scale integrated (VLSI) circuits. In order to keep pace with the levels of integration available, design engineers have developed new methodologies and techniques to manage the increased complexity inherent in these large chips. One such emerging methodology is system-on-chip (SoC) design, wherein predesigned and pre-verified blocks often called intellectual property (IP) blocks, IP cores, or virtual components are obtained from internal sources, or third parties, and combined on a single chip.	These reusable IP cores may include embedded processors, memory blocks, interface blocks, analog blocks, and components that handle application specific processing functions. Corresponding software components are also provided in a reusable form and may include real-time operating systems and kernels, library functions, and device drivers.	Large productivity gains can be achieved using this SoC/IP approach. In fact, rather than implementing each of these components separately, the role of the SoC designer is to integrate them onto a chip to implement complex functions in a relatively short amount of time.The integration process involves connecting the IP blocks to the communication network, implementing design-for-test (DFT) techniques and using methodologies to verify and validate the overall system-level design. Even larger productivity gains are possible if the system is architected as a platform in such as way that derivative designs can be generated quickly.	In the past, the concept of SoC simply implied higher and higher levels of integration. That is, it was viewed as migrating a multichip system-on-board (SoB) to a single chip containing digital logic, memory, analog/mixed signal, and RF blocks. The primary drivers for this direction were the reduction of power, smaller form factor, and lower overall cost. It is important to recognize that integrating more and more functionality on a chip has always existed as a trend by virtue of Moore’s Law, which predicts that the number of transistors on a chip will double every 18-24 months. The challenge is to increase designer productivity to keep pace with Moore’s Law. Therefore, today’s notion of SoC is defined in terms of overall productivity gains through reusable design and integration of components.C.6  Analog systems vs. Digital systems （第6版新增）Up until the middle of the 20th century, the technology designed by engineers was primarily analog; more specifically, the devices and systems that engineers created relied primarily upon physical forces and matter for their basic operationrather than some abstract quantity, such as numbers.	For example, analog audio records introduced in the first part of the 20th century use the physical bumps and indentations in the grooves on vinyl discs (albums) to store audio data. The stylus at the end of the tone arm of a turntable rides in these grooves and vibrates nearly identically to the original sound waves of the audio. This mechanicalmotion is then converted to an identical electrical version of the audio that is subsequently amplified and played through speakers. The entire process of re-creating audio from bumps and indentations is purely physical. Never is the sound waveform converted to numbers to be stored or manipulated; in other words, the system is analog. 	Analog systems like turntables and albums are quite functional. 	However, like all designs, they suffer from a number of shortcomings:Analog systems can be large.Analog systems can consume lots of energy.Analog systems are not easily modified to solve new or different tasks.Analog systems are prone to breakdowns due to their physical operation.During the middle of the 20th century, mathematicians and engineers discovered a process for converting most physical quantities found in the world (such as sound waves, light intensity, forces, voltage, current, or charge) to numbers or digits. This discovery should not be surprising, since scientists had been using mathematics to describe the physical world for centuries. This remarkable, yet simple, discovery was the mathematical foundation that gave birth to the digital age. There are many advantages to “digitizing” analog quantities. For example:	1. Numbers are much less sensitive to physical problems caused by the physical nature of the device used to store or manipulate them. 	2. Numbers are easier to store than an equivalent physical “amount” of something.	3. Numbers can be moved through space, using electronic, optical, or acoustic means.C.7  The Integrated Circuit (IC) （第6版新增）As engineers designed devices for more complex tasks, such as in robotics or medicine, the resulting systems required ever more transistors. This push for more transistors made the devices large and hard to wire together. The next critical step forward into the digital age was the ability to put many transistors onto a single small part that could be used for these increasingly complex tasks. Jack Kilby accomplished this remarkable feat in 1958 at Texas Instruments when he invented the integrated circuit, or IC. For this discovery, Kilby was awarded the 2000 Nobel Prize in physics. This groundbreaking invention was coined the “integrated circuit” because it cleverly integrated many parts, typically transistors, into a single small package.	With the invention of the IC, engineers were able to undertake more complicated designs, because they now had modern digital parts that could do significantly more complicated math on the newly digitized version of the real analog world. Interestingly, the integrated circuit has become so pervasive in devices from computers to anti-lock brakes that it is difficult to find individual transistors in modern technology today—they are now all part of integrated circuits.C.8  A quartz crystal’s Resonance Frequency（第6版新增）Crystals below 30MHz are often specified at the fundamental frequency, but above 30MHz they are typically specified as 3rd, 5th, or even 7th overtone (overtones occur only at odd multiples). It's important to know whether the oscillator is operating in fundamental or overtone mode. An overtone is similar in concept to a harmonic, with the exception that crystal oscillation overtones are not exact integer multiples of the fundamental. Selection of overtone is based upon using the lowest possible overtone that will result in a crystal fundamental frequency below 30MHz. The vendor calibrates a 3rd overtone crystal at the 3rd overtone, not the fundamental. For example, most crystal vendors will automatically give you a 3rd overtone 50MHz crystal if you don't specify fundamental mode or an overtone mode. If you plug a 50MHz 3rd overtone crystal into an oscillator that expects a fundamental-mode crystal, you are likely to have an oscillator running at 50/3 or 16.666MHz! If you don't know the frequency mode of your crystal, contact the designer or the manufacturer of the oscillator circuit.The reason crystal vendors provide overtone crystals is that the quartz material becomes thinner and thinner as frequency increases. Starting at about 30MHz, the quartz becomes so thin that it is hard to handle during the manufacturing process, and crystal vendors don't like to deal with thin crystals. One recent innovation in this area is the invention of inverted mesa crystals. Inverted mesa crystals can be manufactured with a thinner structure and thus can be reliably manufactured at higher fundamental-mode frequencies. This makes for less complex high-frequency oscillator designs and reduces component count by avoiding the need for external inductors/capacitors to induce the proper overtone oscillation mode from the crystal. Not all crystal vendors can provide inverted mesa technology; but, for the ones that can, they will be able to specify fundamental-mode crystals considerably higher than 30MHz. Remember that an overtone-mode crystal cannot be used in a fundamental-mode oscillator, and vice versa. It may oscillate but not at the correct frequency. C.9  Grounding in PCB designs（第6版新增）Good grounding is a system-level design consideration. It should be planned into the product from the first conceptual design reviews. Separate grounding for analog and digital portions of circuitry is one of the simplest and most effective methods of noise suppression. One or more layers on multi-layer PCBs are usually devoted to ground planes. If the designer is not careful, the analog circuitry will be connected directly to these ground planes. The analog circuitry return, after all, is the same net in the netlist as digital return. Autorouters respond accordingly and connect all of the grounds together, creating a disaster. After the fact separation of grounds on a mixed digital and analog board is almost impossible. Every ground connection in the analog circuitry must be lifted from the board and connected together. For surface mount boards, this results in a colossal mess of “tombstoned” passive components and floating IC leads.C.10  Switching regulators （第6版新增）Why would you use any power-supply IC other than a linear regulator? One reason: A linear regulator can only provide an output voltage that's smaller than its input voltage. As mentioned above, if you wanted to create a voltage that's higher than the input voltage or of opposite polarity, you'd have no choice but to use a switching regulator or a charge pump. Another reason: Efficiency. Converting a voltage to another voltage always wastes power. In the ideal case where a regulator wastes no power, its efficiency rating would be 100%. If half the power supplied to a regulator found its way to the regulator's load, its efficiency would be 50%. A linear regulator is usually, though not always, less efficient than a switching regulator. You can calculate a linear regulator's efficiency by dividing its output voltage by its input voltage. (This formula is sufficiently accurate if the current that powers the regulator—the regulator's supply or quiescent current—is a small percentage of the current drawn from the regulator's output, and in most cases it is.) Thus, when the voltage of the source powering a linear regulator is near the regulator's output voltage, efficiency is high; in that case, a linear regulator may be a better choice than a switching regulator.A high-efficiency regulator provides a distinct advantage in portable equipment, as less wasted power results in longer battery life. You may need a high-efficiency regulator for another reason: Wasted power is dissipated as heat. Thus, a high-efficiency power supply often suits wall-powered equipment as well as portable equipment. It can reduce the temperature within an enclosure to a tolerable level in either case.Switching regulators share none of the advantages of linear regulators. Switching regulators consume more board area (except perhaps when a linear regulator requires a heatsink to dissipate the power lost within it), cost more, and generate more noise than their linear counterparts. Yet for years switching regulators have been enormously popular with power-supply designers. Why? The reason is because these devices boast excellent efficiency when subjected to many combinations of input voltage and load current (as high as 96% for both step-up and step-down switchers, although a step-down is typically more efficient, and up to 90% for an inverter). Also, if you need to step up, step down, or invert a voltage, you'll find that switching regulators are the only devices capable of these operations for load currents above approximately 125mA. You can use charge pumps to perform these operations, but the load currents these devices allow are limited. It's simply too expensive to make the switches internal to charge pumps large enough to handle load currents above the 125mA level just mentioned, although a few charge pumps supply several hundred milliamps. 